# AirBnB-Price-Prediction

Airbnb is a home-sharing platform that allows homeowners and renters (‘hosts’) to put their properties (‘listings’) online, so that guests can pay to stay in them. Hosts are expected to set their own prices for their listings. Although Airbnb and other sites provide some general guidance, there are currently no free and accurate services which help hosts price their properties using a wide range of data points. Airbnb pricing is important to get right particularly in big cities like New York where there is lots of competition and even small differences in prices can make a big difference. It is also difficult thing to do correctly – price too high and no one will book. Price too low and you will be missing out on a lot of potential income.

This project aims to solve this problem, by using regressor models to predict the price for properties across major cities in the United States. By examining a large data set of past home rentals and finding patterns and statistical relationships between house’s characteristics and its price including patterns that might not be evident to a human who’s looking at the data. We have explored the preparation and cleaning of Airbnb data and conducted some exploratory data analysis. With this the users can know what features of an Airbnb listing are most important as well as how prices are fluctuating based on amenities, location etc.

## Introduction

Unlike hotels, which have their own pricing system, Airbnb prices are usually determined by the hosts empirically. It poses challenges for the new hosts, as well as for existing hosts with new listings, to determine the prices reasonably high yet without losing popularity. On the consumers’ side, though they can compare the price across other similar listings, it is still valuable for them to know whether the current price is worthy and if it is a good time to book the rooms. This project is used to determine and predict the price of Airbnb listings in major US cities like Boston, Chicago, Washington DC, Los Angeles, New York, San Francisco.
The price for Airbnb renting depends on multiple factors, and we divide the input type into 3 categories, including continuous, categorical, set (amenities) features. We have extracted more than 60 features from the dataset. Here we only list a few of them that are both representative and important for the task, such as room size {accommodates, bathrooms, bedrooms, beds, ...}, location {neighbourhood, latitude, longitude, ...}, facilities {amenities, property type, ...}, and booking related {availability, cancellation policy, host response rate, ...}. The ground-truth label is the actual base price, and we use a variety of regression approaches including linear regression, ridge regression, lasso regression, as well as XG boost, to predict the value.

## Methods and Techniques

As the target variable to be predicted is the price, which is a continuous value, we can apply regression models like linear regression, ridge regression etc., but unable to apply classification models like k-nearest neighbors, svc etc. we used the default settings for all machine learning approaches imported from the sklearn package. Note that we have experimented with different parameters, like learning rate, n-estimators in XG Boost., and the output metrics stay largely unchanged.We have applied these machine learning approaches with different label transformations, with the target variable as an integer and as logarithmic value and we found that logarithmic transformation largely improves the model performance
